Now that We understand what coupon bonds are,
let's talk about what zero coupon bonds are.
Ridiculously called this but
you'll understand why in a second.
So guess what a zero coupon bond is.
It's a bond that doesn't have a coupon to cut off.
Why bother making a bond with no coupon then?
Well because maybe the company or government
that wants to issue this bond
won't have money to pay back the bonds
or loan you or give you dividend payments
or coupon payments for many many many years.
Okay, okay I get it, I get it
but hold on a second,
why on earth would I lend a company money
in the form of a bond if I'm not gonna get
a coupon out of it anyway.
Well what they do is they sell you a zero coupon bond
at a discount.
Let me first of all go back to one of our other bonds here.
This is a coupon bond, not a zero coupon bond.
It's this one here, we paid $1000 for it
for this bond and what happens is
when this bond expires, it's still worth 1000 bucks.
You get $1000 back, I'll explain what that means.
So let me get some of my fake money here.
Perfect, okay.
This is 1000 fake American dollars in tens.
So let's say the New York Central Railroad company.
I think that's Grand Central, that's pretty cool.
Let's say that they wanted to raise a lot of money
in order to build Grand Central Station.
What they would do is they would sell this to me
in return I would give them $1000.
I feel like a player here.
I give them $1000
and then what would happen is
I would cut off these coupons, every six months
see these coupons here,
for dividend payments and then years later
when this coupon is due contractually,
I give it back them and they give my $1000 back.
Okay, makes sense?
Okay, good.
Let me just get rid of this stuff here.
Alright, alright I get it, I get it.
Okay so I want to give you an example
of a zero coupon bond now.
This is a real war bond issued in 1945 by the United States
and Chris maybe you can just zoom in on that.
And in 1945 US government when they issued this bond
which is January 1945 they had no idea
when World War II might end and they didn't know
if they'd be able to pay coupons
to finance the war, World War II
which was ridiculously expensive.
So as a result this war bond does not pay you a coupon.
It's a zero coupon but you can redeem it
10 years later meaning 1955 at a value of $25.
25, okay.
If we look at the back of this zero coupon war bond,
we can see that the bond is sold at a discount
and if you bought this bond in 1945 in January
when it came out, you would've paid $18.75.
It says here on the back and it rises in value
every six months by a certain amount
until you could sell it at maturity in 1955 for 25 bucks
so when you buy it, if you bought it
at the issue price in January 1945,
you would have paid $18.75 and if you sold it,
I'm just reading off here five years later
meaning in 1950, you'd get $20.50 from the US government
or if you held till maturity meaning till 1955,
you'd be able to redeem it for 25 bucks.
So this is a shared discount.
If you bought it when it first came out,
you would have paid $18.75
and then zero coupons
when it matured 10 years later
you get 25 bucks back.
Now you understand how many governments and companies
can raise money so they can finance growth
on certain very expensive products or projects.
The riskier the bond investment is,
the higher the interest rate on the bond which makes sense
and so the lowest risk bond investment
according to global markets
is United States government issued bonds.
As a result the rate the US government issued bonds at
or issues bonds that is relatively low.
We know from this that if you put in $18.35
and 10 years later you're gonna get 25 bucks,
that's not very much money right.
It's a decent amount but at the same time
if we go back, pretend we're in 1945 January right now,
probably the lowest risk places at that time
to invest your money was I guess United States.
United States government, whatever.
Anyway, risk and return.
If you think that a certain government
is at risk of defaulting meaning going bankrupt
and not being able to pay back their debt
then of course, obviously don't ever invest in bonds
for that government but what happens is
those governments that issued those bonds
will issue very very high interest rates
to entice you and I to consider buying it.
I don't think you should do it.
Only invest in very high quality bonds
so I'll tell you which ones.
And I'm not referring to countries only when I say this.
When I say bonds from governments.
I'm also referring to municipal bonds
or bonds issued from local governments or cities.
Be really careful about that because sometimes
you can invest in cities in America for example
that issue bonds and that city can go
or town can go bankrupt.
They can default on their payments
and I'm gonna teach you how to buy the right bonds
that are highly rated to protect you
and make it safer for you very soon.
Just be careful about also investing in countries
that have very volatile currencies,
meaning their currency goes up and down quite rapidly.
Separately how do we know if a bond is too risky
to invest in or not?
The way we know is by using ratings agencies.
Like Moody's or S&P and there's others as well
but just like how there are consumer credit companies
that we spoke about like Aqua Facts, Experian
and Trans Union earlier in the course,
the way that larger debt ratings agency companies
like Moody's or S&P rate bonds
is alphabetically and that's all you gotta know.
I'll tell you what that means.
The top rated bonds RCA is good
and once you go low in the alphabet it's bad.
The top rated bonds are called AAA then AA then A,
then BBB, I think you get the idea.
I prefer for you to never invest in anything
that has a rating below BBB
and that goes for government or corporate bond investments.
BBB or higher ratings from the ratings agencies
Moody's and S&P place.
Don't be seduced by bonds with high interest rate returns
if the debt rating from Moody's or S&P
those two companies are low or speculative.
Just be careful and you're gonna hear people call these
riskier bonds, high-yield or junk bonds.
Just please avoid them if you can okay.
Please, please, please and if you do invest in them
make sure you're doing it in a very diversified portfolio
and that the money you invest you're prepared to lose.
There's that risk.
A credit rating of BB or lower by Standard & Poor's
is classified as junk.
Again all I want you to do is invest in BBB bonds or higher
and a great example of junk bonds financing
really risky expensive stuff
is if somebody wanted to build many hotels
in the middle of a desert.
It sounds crazy but this is actually
how Las Vegas was financed and I'll let Robert De Niro
tell you more about this.
The town will never be the same.
After the tinges, the big corporations took it all over,
today it looks like Disney Land.
(hymn music)
And while the kids play cardboard pirates,
mummy and daddy dropped the house payments
and Junior's college money on the poker slots.
In the old day dealers knew your name,
what you drank, what you play.
Today it's like checking into an airport
and if you order room service, you're lucky
if you get it by Thursday.
Today it's all gone.
We got a way of performing in a suitcase
and some 25-year old hotel school kid
is gonna want a social security number.
After the tips has got knocked out of the box
the corporations tore down practically everyone
of the old casinos and where did the money
come from to rebuild the pyramids?
Junk bonds.
That's was a clip from Scorsese's awesome film, Casino.
It was great.
Okay, quick question for you.
What is a lower risk bond investment?
The US federal government bonds or IBM's corporate bonds?
Of course it's the US federal government bonds
as the US government is less likely to go bankrupt
or out of business that IBM is
okay which stands for Itty Bitty Machines.
How do I know that?
Because the ratings agencies like Moody's and S&P
rate US government bonds higher than IBM bonds
and also because foreign governments like China
own a lot of US debt, meaning US bonds
and there's too much at stake given the interconnectedness
of global markets.
Too big to fail.
I'm not gonna go there but since the US government bonds
are lower risk than IBM's bonds do think the interest rate
on US government bonds is higher or lower than IBM's bonds?
Yes, IBM's bonds interest rates are higher
because they're higher risk bonds
relative to the US government bonds.
It's all relative.
Just like valuation with stocks or any investment.
I prefer buying ETF-based diversified bond funds
or very low risk United States
or other great government bonds
that have inflation protected mechanisms built in
just in case inflation increases.
So when I say US treasury bonds or treasury bonds
or treasuries we're usually referring to US government debt
and there's four different types of treasuries
I want to quickly talk about.
Number one, treasury bills which mature in under 12 months.
They're like short-term bonds.
Number two, treasury notes which mature and one to 10 years
and they give you coupon which means
a dividend every six months.
Number three treasury bonds which mature in 10 to 30 years
and lastly number four which is my favorite one.
It's called TIPS which stands for
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities.
Remember we looked at tip, T-I-P.
TIPS adjust upwards in value if we get an inflation
and a great resource if you want read more about this stuff,
more about treasuries is treasurydirect.gov
Separately some of you hear people talking about
municipal bonds.
For example, we have a municipal bond here
from the city of Los Angeles in 1927.
It says state improvement bonds, city of Los Angeles
and people call these things "Munis" and on many occasions
muniz or municipal governments will issue these tax-free
and they'll do that just to entice you.
You don't have to pay taxes on them
which is an awesome thing because some of those people
are scared at investing in Municipal governments because
the city of Los Angeles for example
has a much higher chance of going bankrupt
than the US government in general
so it's tax-free long term.
So if a bond or a municipal bond is tax-free
then the way you calculate the equivalent return
on a taxable investment or yield is to take the yield
or the return on that bond.
Let's say it's 5% and you divide it
by one minus the tax rate.
For example if taxes are 30% then this would mean
that the taxable equivalent investment return
on a 5% bond or muni would be 5%
divided by one minus point three percent.
One minus interest rate.
This means that you would be basically getting
a taxable equivalent yield of 7.14%,
so that that 5% bond yields you 7.14%
as you don't pay taxes on it.
So how do you by bonds?
Well ask your bank on how to buy bonds and stocks
as they recommend brokerages
if they don't have one themselves.
If you already have an investment account open,
then buying bonds my way is very easy
as I prefer to only by ETF's which we talked about before.
I'm gonna demonstrate in the next exercise
which is exercise number 20 on bonds, how to buy bonds
and as with stocks please do all of your own research
when it comes to bonds.
Don't rely no me or anybody.
You know read the investment prospectus document
and disclosure documents
and call the company issuing the bonds
or the bank issuing the bonds
or the investment firm issuing the bonds
and ask them questions if you don't understand
something that you read
in the investment prospectus documents or disclosures.
Just ask them.
Now I want to show you where you can get
easy to understand bond information.
So we're gonna use Yahoo finance again,
meeting finance@yahoo.com
which is convenient as we will also get Yahoo finance data
for our portfolio in the exercise in the next lecture.
Let's now go to finance.yahoo.com/bonds.
Now the first thing we see here
is US treasury bond rates
and you can change this as well.
You can look at crypto currencies, stocks,
ETS, mutual funds commodities et cetera, whatever.
So this will just take you to a different URL
so right now we're at slash bonds.
If you go here the URL will change
just so you could bookmark them.
Let's go back to bonds.
So we have a three-month, six-month
and multiple years up to 30 year
and this important monitor for when you get a mortgage
and we'll cover that very soon in the course and obviously
the rates that you and I will be paying for our mortgage
over a 30 year fixed rate is gonna be
higher than the US government because
we're just riskier unfortunately for banks to invest in us
than the US government.
Okay so when you scroll down here
and I want to cover this here,
please be careful and I mentioned this before
but it's important to reiterate it.
Whenever you see this sponsored please don't read those
because there's bias associated with these.
The rest of this is actually pretty good
and try not to read any stories that where
strong opinions are mentioned.
I want you to read the ones that explain
how the world of finance works.
For example the 10-year treasury
yield briefly top that percent after Congress just passed
a pretty big tax overhaul.
It was a big news on that day
but you can go through here and just kinda
learn about the world of finance
by reading these non-sponsored articles
and then what we'll do in the next exercise
is we're gonna create a portfolio and add bonds.
So you can even type in the word bonds
and you can find bond funds here.
Now remember earlier we went through this iShares document.
It's a 12 page PDF that's attached to a prior lecture.
You can go back to that if you want
and you can pull up a lot of these trading symbols here
to look at the bond funds that are offered by iShares
and the reason I bring this up again is because
the expense ratio is very very low here.
So you can just scroll through
and there's just a ton of bond funds
so it's a pretty cool document to start off with.
You can look at corporate bonds,
you can look at interest rate hedge bonds,
longer duration convertible bonds which basically means
shares that convert to bonds or vice versa.
Little bit outside the scope of this course but anyway
there's tons of bonds you look at in this 12 page
and what you do is you just double-click,
you can copy the ticker, go here hit enter
just like it's a stock ticker and there you go
and you can look into these.
So this one here is a short treasury bond ETF.
You can click through to find out
what positions are within each ETF fund
and you can click on the individual securities below
in most cases and learn more about the companies
just like we learned with by doom
we click on before when we were looking at equity ETF's.
So in the next lesson we'll do an exercise
on adding bonds to your portfolio.
Thanks.